a great blessing to you, then must know how to preserve it, must know how to enhance it,
must know how to enjoy it.
You should not just get satisfied with one, you can say, one dance, drama or one this
thing, one that.
But you should have a full oneness with the Divine, full oneness and that is possible
only if you really meditate, which is quite a easy thing to do, to meditate is.
Some people say, Mother we cannot get over time, we cannot think, we are all the time
thinking something or that time we want to see the watch.
In the beginning you may have a little problem, I am not saying you may not have, you may
have, but that's only in the beginning, but gradually you will be all right, gradually
you will master it, gradually you will know it so well that you would not like to have
anything else of a cheaper time, you wouldn't care for such a thing.
You see, so to get to your beauty, to get to your glory, to get to your own great personality
which is now exposed, only thing you have to do really religiously is to meditate.
That's not that tonight I came very late so I did not meditate, tomorrow you see I have
to go for work so I cannot meditate.
Nobody wants to know the excuses, it's between you and yourself, it is your gain, nobody
else's, it's for your gain everything is happening.
Now one has to know that we have achieved a certain height of evolution and from this
height you might go up to here, up to here, up to here, I am not saying it's not possible
to do that, but first and foremost thing that whatever you may be, may consider you to be
a very high class sahaja yogi, you have to be humble about meditation.
This meditative quality, even when I am talking to you, it's just I am getting into it because
it's so joy giving, you just jump into the ocean of joy.
First it will be difficult but after sometime you will know that this connection that you
have with Shri Mataji is the only connection that you are looking out for and also there
is another point people get lost with, which I have seen very common with some people who
get lost.
They meditate individually, very much, it is very correct, individually they will meditate
and they will sit down, meditate, eat a puja, but collectively they will not meditate.
So this is another point one has to remember that you have to be collectively meditate
because I am a collective being of all, and when you meditate collectively you are really
very close to Me.
So even if you have a program or something you must do some meditation with it.
Always have meditation as the priority for any program.
You sing the songs, it's over, everything is done, then you meditate.
If I am insisting on something you must know that this must be the truth I am telling,
absolutely the basis of it, though it looks rather mundane but it's very important.
Now for us to worship Adi Shakti, I don't know what's because there has been no prayers
or anything about Adi Shakti.
Up to Bhagavati they have gone, but beyond Bhagavati they have not gone.
So I don't know what sort of pujas we will have, but let's try something, maybe.
I think the meditation is the best way we can really achieve something.
So we can go into meditation for about five minutes.
Can you increase the volume?
Please close your eyes.
Eleven Rudras are awakened and they will destroy all that is negative.
May God bless you all.
If we now would like to start the evening, Manish, would you like to tell us what is
the purpose of this?
Thank you all for being here and it's good to meet with everyone virtually.
So since we're talking about Kannada Johari, I'll tell you the story of how it all started.
This was in October of 1994, the exact date I don't remember, but it was right after we
did the programs in Chicago.
And then after that we came to New York and she was staying at the Holiday Inn right next
to LaGuardia Airport.
So it was in the morning and as usual, you know, got up, made her tea, offered her tea,
got her the newspaper and just having some light conversation.
And suddenly she looked at this little ad.
It was really, I mean, very hard to find that ad, but she went straight to that advertisement
for the Kannada Johari land.
And as I was talking to Joe earlier, she talked about the fact that she saw, you know, vibrations
just coming from there.
Yes, she did say that she saw vibrations coming from there.
And so she told me, she said, call Minoj.
So I called Minoj.
She talked to him, asked him to get hold of the realtor.
I don't remember the name of the realtor.
And so, you know, then he said, Shrimadi, he's available.
Would you like to see the property?
And she said, yes.
So the next day we drove down from New York to Kannada Johari.
It took I think it was four hours plus that we took to get to the place and straight.
We went to the land.
The realtor was there.
By the time we got there, it was kind of getting evening.
I mean, there was still light, but, you know, it was kind of getting to dusk.
And so he heard us talking to each other and, you know, speaking to Shrimadi or Shrimadi
or mother.
So he turned to her and said, Mother, would you like to see the property?
And she said, yes.
And so he had an SUV and she got onto an SUV and he drove Shrimadi all around the property.
And she came back and she said, we're buying it.
And then, of course, you know, whatever payment details had to be figured out, those were
figured out.
And I know that we drove back to New York that evening.
And of course, next day the money was transferred and, you know, the purchase was put into process.
But there is a McDonald's which is right off the road when you get onto the freeway.
And so as we were getting to the freeway, Shrimadi said, well, we have to celebrate.
So we all went to McDonald's and we had hamburgers, fries and coke.
She had a diet coke.
We had our cooks.
So that is the story of how Kana Johari started.
And then, of course, the rest of it, you're aware of it.
You know, Shrimadi came there several times.
Next one I know was that she was we have to get the hangar.
So that was worked on.
But the beginning story is a very short one.
But this one, if you if you go back and you look, I'm telling you, this ad was so teeny.
You know, if you really had to go through the paper, you would have a hard time finding it.
But she went straight to the advertisement and next Kana Johari was put on the chest.
So that's a short story.
And, you know, I'm glad that one was able to share it with you.
Can you please add about the name of Kana Johari for everyone?
Right. So I remember when we looked, you know, Kana Johari.
So Kana is one of the names of Lord Krishna.
That's Kana. His mother, she showed I used to call him Kana and hurry is, you know, the name of Vishnu.
So Kana Johari is.
Lord Krishna, who is hurry means he's Vishnu himself, and it's amazing that, you know, the place she finds in America has that name.
And it is the name given by the indigenous native people.
So, you know, the divine always arranges things in our own way.
Just telling Joe also in the property that she purchased in Los Angeles was in color, color basis.
But if you say the Indian way, Kali Kali Basa, it is the place of the mother Kali.
So, you know, she has her own way of doing things, even in a far fresh place like the U.S., you still find.
So, you know, if she used to say that the Indians knew about and these two talk of Adi Shakti as the great grandmother.
And also, I think in Colombia, they talked of the blue colored guard who wrote this big bird, which is again, you know, Shri Krishna, Shri Vishnu on his guru.
So. So that's my part.
That's the little part that I have to share.
And yet was very simple.
Nothing. There was no great planning, no, none of this stuff.
It was very straightforward.
And that's how Kannada Johari came to become Sahaj Lad.
Thank you, Manish. I'm sorry, Jeremy, I did get one more question, Manish, please.
You had mentioned previously that Shrimataji purchased it with her own money.
Yes. And later on, the collective decided to reimburse her.
Can you tell us about that?
Yes. So I don't remember the exact amount, but it was somewhere around fifty thousand.
That was the purchase price for the property.
And like I said, you know, the second day Shrimati went saw the property.
Third day, the money was transferred and the purchase was in process.
Of course, you know, the paperwork and all that has to be done.
But I think it was about a good year or two, two years, maybe three years that, you know,
everybody said, no, we should pay for this land.
You know, you found it for us.
So then the money was collected and then given to Shrimati.
And yeah, that's the story of Kannada Johari.
Thank you so much.
Any other questions?
Any other questions for me?
All right. Thank you, everyone.
You've taken time out of hosting a party.
Yes. I'm hosting my holiday party.
So I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to log off.
But thank you so much.
Thank you.
What happened next?
That would be lovely.
Yeah, actually, I was going to talk a little bit about what happened before during the 80s,
because Kannada Johari was a fulfillment of discussions and hints that we had
gotten on previous visits of Shrimati to New York.
During the 80s, she had said that she, oh, am I, should I wait?
No, no, sorry, do keep going, keep going.
Yeah, okay.
I didn't.
Yeah, so early, early in during the 80s, there were some mentions that Shrimati would buy
a land in New York and that the vibrations upstate New York very good.
And there wasn't much discussion about it.
And I didn't hear them directly.
I was hearing this through our leaders and nothing happened, but it was just that this
would happen that we would this at some point or Shrimati had the interest in getting a
property upstate New York.
I know that during the 80s, we had a seminar upstate New York where people who were interested
in getting a land in New York, where people who got their realization in New York, they
were able to go the same weekend to a seminar with Shrimati.
And so it was around that time where she said that if we had a place upstate of our own,
then people would go on retreats and they would be able to get much deeper than they
would be able to just by coming to weekly meetings in a big city.
So this is something that the reason I'm mentioning is because practically all of the things that
Shrimati talked to us about that we could do with the land and what its purpose was
were fulfillments of our desires.
There was someone in the collective or more than probably more than one, we probably shared
the same dreams, that desired the things that and there's a whole list of them and I have
that I could share that with you and show you at some point I will if I may.
But I wanted to step back a bit just to mention that this was
on the horizon, it was in our hearts.
We had gone to seminars that we organized for our small collectives and
the thought came up, the idea was discussed, why don't we have our own place?
This was there and so then it was fulfilled later on.
Because you know yogis can talk about things for a long time but Shrimati ji propelled it
in like as Manish said how it happened so quickly and pretty much for a long period of time
after she purchased the land. It was like that, everything happened very quickly
and I'll just add something to what Manish had mentioned was perhaps it was the day after she,
I don't remember the exact place in the timeline but perhaps it was the day after
that Shrimati ji drove up and saw the land.
Some yogis were sent up to look at the land maybe before the final purchase was made,
before the signatures were made, you know just to double check in a sense.
And I was amongst those who went up. There was an engineer primarily who had to come and I was his
his navigator, I sat next to him. And this is for me, this is one of the most significant
things was at that time because whoever has driven to Kannada Hari from New York from the south,
drives up and the car is on the road and the car is on the road and the car is on the road.
And then goes west along this Mohawk River and it's a very striking view. It's unforgettable,
especially if you're in the, well whether you're in the passenger or driver's seat, it's a very
very, it's an unforgettable view and you're driving along the Mohawk for you know half an hour
or so before you get to the Kannada Hari exit. And I was sitting next to this engineer, Subash
was his name, who Shrimati ji wanted him to or perhaps it was his desire, I don't remember the
discussions because I wasn't in the hotel myself but I somehow got involved in coming up to see the
property. And so anyway I was his navigator and I had the map of New York in my lap
and I was looking down at it and then looking at the route that we were driving and also looking
at this view on the right hand side. So anyway we went up, we looked at the property, he talked to
the realtor about something, I think he was trying to reduce the price or something. There was a lot
of going back and forth and at some point, and he actually called Shrimati ji at one point and
interesting, I think probably no one has heard this before, she said what about the other
property? And there was some other property that the realtor had shown her or mentioned at one
point. And this may have been just a drama, maybe it was just something to put the realtor on,
you know, to make him, I don't know the reason why, but she did ask about another property and
he was very surprised to hear why is she talking about that property. And so there's a bit of
attention I could feel in the conversation. And then finally after looking at everything,
and I think the realtor agreeing to another thousand dollars off that Yogi Aruzweth was very
proud of himself that he could make a contribution of reducing the price of it. Although it was
extremely cheap as Manish said, it was extremely cheap, 114 acres for around 50,000. So anyway we
drove back and we had to drive fairly quickly because Shrimati ji was leaving from the airport.
So this is probably the next day after she went up and we wanted to bid her farewell and
Subash probably had something to convey to her. So we drove back down and we saw her off. And this
I have to tell you is that afterwards I went home and I sat down and I was feeling really good,
after seeing Shrimati ji how you feel. You're just completely enveloped in vibrations like
no meditation can ever make you feel. And so I just sat down on the couch and sounds a little,
maybe doesn't sound so good, I switched on the TV. But what happened when I switched on the TV is
the image that was there on the screen was the image, very striking image of a river.
It was an aerial video moving above the river and it just like made me sit up straight in my chair.
I've seen this before. I mean this is immediately after the same day that we came back from driving
there. And the narrator starts talking and talks about Kanuja Hari. And then over the screen
is superimposed fading in a map, a map of New York state. And it's zooming in to
Kanuja Hari and the river. And it's just what I was looking at. And the time we were driving up,
the hours we were driving up, it was the same map I had in my hands as I was being the navigator for
this yoki. And so for me it was like, I mean it just, you know, though she had left and I was
back in the Bronx living with my mother. And it's kind of a dingy area where I lived, you know. But
it just brought me so much closer. You know, it made a big point in my life. It just
drove the significance home of this. For some reason this incident, this coincidence was
organized, you know, for my benefit to understand the significance, the importance of
what had happened today, that day. So I didn't know what it was. And it was the Mohawk Indians
they were talking about. It was a documentary. And so I mean I didn't know, you know, what this,
why this video was there at the time. Exactly, you know, as I probed a little bit into the
the Native Americans and that sort of thing, which Shrimadaji at some point told us not to
probe too much into that. Although later when she had the public program in upstate, in Albany,
the Mohawks came, those who had their reservation in Kanujahari.
And by the way, our land isn't, maybe some of you don't know, our land isn't in Kanujahari. It's in
Minden, which is in the village of Fort Plain. But you know, that's the exit you see. And that's how
we've always referred it, referred to it. But anyway, the Mohawks came to her public program
and they recognized her. They gave her some gifts and they said she was, I don't remember the exact
words, but they recognized her as a divine person. We haven't seen them. I don't know if anyone else
has. I don't remember having seen them since. But that was just an interesting,
that was interesting for me. So I'm going to use, I have cheat notes here I'm going to look at,
because it's a long period of time that, you know, we were, a lot of things have happened.
And I haven't actually thought about it in a long time, but I started making notes the other day.
Oh, there was one interesting thing when we went to the McDonald's with Sri Mataji.
And she was waiting. Some people went to get the order. She looked at the yogis that were
standing nearby. And she said, all of our cheeks were pink. And she then explained that they were
pink because of the atmosphere, the air upstate, that it was, there's no pollution.
So after that, we started having seminars on the land. Some yogis, Mark Sutherland,
and some other yogis organized our first seminars. And though we didn't have anything on the land,
we rented tents, hats, and we had caterers make food. And, you know, there was no electricity,
road. It's just lands, just land. But yogis were very interested in being there.
So there were these seminars and inevitably, you know, it would rain and people would get stuck.
But they didn't stop people coming. People wanted to be there. And not only that, but we started
thinking about how could we make these weekends more like the seminars we've had in other places.
And so what do we need is we can cook for ourselves instead of having caterers because
the food wasn't plentiful enough or it was expensive. It was good, you know, though there
was nothing there, we're just coming to stay. It was a little expensive. So the yogis who came,
we started thinking, you know, how can we do this better? And we started bringing portable gas
stoves. And we started talking to the neighbors. The neighbor had water and used to, the closest
neighbor had water and would bring a hose for us so that we could have fresh water. And we started
renting the porta potties. And people used to come, but the rain kept coming as well. And
maybe you've heard these stories before. It used to rain so much and the neighbors, people around
used to say, the yogis are coming, that's why it's raining. They actually said that.
Some neighbors, several neighbors said that about us because it happened a lot.
And so we were inevitably, you know, walking around in mud. Our feet were, our boots,
our shoes, everything was in mud. And, you know, a lot of the arrangements were, you know,
we're considering how we're going to manage the mud and that sort of thing. So I'm telling you
all this why, because whenever we have a situation where we're going to have a lot of mud,
whenever we had these events, the leader, Manoj, he used to talk to Srimati ji and tell her what,
you know, what we've been doing with the land. He actually used to get up, he used to talk to
her almost every day. These are the old days and used to get up like at four in the morning and
talk to her about different things. And the land was, what we were doing with the land was
something that was in her attention. And, you know, he told her things that we were doing,
like the seminars, and we also built a little house or shed. It was actually,
actually we intended to make a shed so we didn't have to carry things back and forth.
And then we thought we'd make it into two stories because we heard Srimati ji might come,
that she might come and there might be a puja here. And so we should have a place for her to
stay because there's no place for her to stay in the land. So we put two stories on it. First,
we didn't have a big budget. It wasn't very well planned out. It was just very spontaneous,
very innocently thought out that we could host Srimati ji in this little two-story shed, you know.
Of course, it never happened. But, you know, the fact that we did that,
and the fact that yogis from Canada and from mostly around the East Coast, but not only,
there are yogis from the West Coast who came out who were excited about the fact that we had a land
and were there for a lot of the development projects that came after this. But the attention
we put on it, you know, it pleased Srimati ji. That's, I mean, this is the feedback we got from
Manoj. So there was Manoj talking, one person talking to Srimati ji, and he talking to people
on being there who were excited about being there, who had dreams about what this place could be for
us. And everyone had a dream about, you know, what it could be. And I'll get to that in a minute.
So that, I think this was why things grew and why things seemed to happen very quickly,
because her attention was on, she really wanted us to use the land. She was so supportive
of suggestions, and she would make, she'd hear a suggestion from a yogi and then she'd repeat it
to others. So at one point she, some yogi said we should make cabins. So she said to Manoj,
why don't you cut the trees there and make cabins out of them? So, you know, no,
no one had any of that kind of knowledge to do that. So he asked, he asked me to go up and take
a look and see how we could do that and find out how we could do that. So, so, but I'll tell you
that what she said, she was, she gave like very specific directions. She said you cut the tree
and then you pour tar on the base so that it won't grow back.
And take the logs and store them someplace until they dry out and then you can make the
log cabins out of it. So she put, this is only one example, there are many examples where she
gave very specific instructions on how to do things because we didn't, I mean, though we had
desires, we had interests, maybe we didn't have the knowledge or we, you know, we didn't know
what to do. So she, she helped us get unstuck and moving in a lot of cases. So anyway, I went up,
it turned out that, I mean, the assessment was from someone I got a hold of there who knew about
trees, that the trees weren't big enough to make log cabins out of it. And so it didn't go any
further. You know, we would have done something, but I don't know what conversation and notion
she had, but we didn't do anything about log cabins. Later on, she drew something. I'll show
you that if I can. How a dwelling would look, how she drew a floor plan for a dwelling
that yogis could live in. So
later on, the hangar was on the horizon and it was something that was discussed. The,
the, the leader, he would talk to Shri Mataji about it. It was something that yogis were talking
about prior to that. We knew that they had one in Kibela and there was a yogi in Australia who had
helped them put it up. And we got hold of the video from that, from that yogi in Australia
showed how it can be put up. And at some point we started looking at the availability and he,
he suggested that Yogi says that we look at availability of hangers in in the U S and so
we did that. And there were these plans that I'd send to Minoj and he would send to Shri Mataji.
And, and then we're looking at different sizes and we're looking at quite big hangar, much than
much bigger than the one we ended up getting. But, you know, it's been you know, our,
I don't know what you call it, but it's like our characteristic. We have often not moved quick
enough on suggestions and things like that. I think everyone knows the story. So it was
three weeks before the puja that Shri Mataji was coming for Adishakti puja and was supposed to have
hangar. And so she asked, so how's the construction going? You know, and nothing had been bought.
So so then, I mean, we didn't get any of those that we looked at earlier. We ended up getting
something, something smaller, which we have now. And the idea was to get that and expand it at some
point. And miraculously though, someone found one and was able, you know, it was already
constructed, you know, cause these things take time to put together. So we have to order them in
advance and somehow it got up in that short period of time. I mean, miraculously, all, I mean, so many
yogis came together. So many yogis were excited about it. It was a big, big milestone that we
would have this place, a hangar, you know, everybody knew about Kabbalah, the hangar and the gathering
there. And this was, you know, a very significant development that we would have a place like that.
There were rumors going around after we put it up that Shri Mataji would move there. I don't know
where they came from, honestly, but even some Italians believed it. And they were, when they came
to Adi Shaktipuja, some of them stayed afterwards and they were looking at properties nearby where
they could live if she moved here. Cause they just, you know, they were that devoted
that if she's moving, we're moving too. Some of them, yeah. So that rumor was there. And that also propelled
us that we could, you know, those of us who were involved, that, you know, we were going to be a world,
it could be a world center, a place where we would host people on a regular basis, yogis, and
Shri Mataji would be spending a lot more time with us. So that propelled us. So when we built
the hangar, the idea of a road came up because of all the mud and all that. The idea of we should do
a proper road because how are we going to, and Shri Mataji didn't say to put the hangar by the
main road. She said to put it up top, you know, so that's where we put it. And, you know, that's like
more than a quarter of a mile, I think, up the road to the hangar. So we talked about there, but we, when
we put the hangar and we didn't do a road, we just, I think Shri Mataji knew our limits. This was the other
big, you know, thing about my big, what I learned, you know, what I gained from these
interactions was she always proposed things within our limits. You know, they might be maybe a little
bit beyond the limits, so we'd have to stretch a lot, but they were not like extraordinary steps. So like
road was a big thing. We did that during the following year. So when we talked to her about road
and she talked to us, she wanted to talk to the quote unquote builders, the people who were on the
ground and who were interested in getting things going, who took time out. There were people who,
on the West Coast and people on the East Coast, Francois and another Gary from the West Coast, who
stayed on the land prior to the hangar's erection and helped coordinate the, you know, the work that
had to be done. So when we asked her about the road, she didn't say we should do the
gravel and all that because that was a big, big job, but we didn't realize it, you know.
Just getting the hangar up was enough. So she said, she said, what you do is roll, roll the,
get a roller and a big roller and one of those big construction vehicles that, you know, you use for
paving heavy and she said that will pack down the earth, will make it hard, you know, so that you
won't get stuck in the mud. I think we got one. It wasn't big enough, but we got one. She said also,
don't worry. She didn't seem too worried about it. I mean, she knew that wasn't going to happen
that year. We were concerned, but she was not. She said also the trucks coming up and down delivering
they will pack down the road. So she wasn't concerned that year and that year when the
hangar was put up wasn't really, we were pretty good, the weather wasn't, that wasn't the mud year
poocha. We actually built the road in a mud year when it was so muddy.
So yeah, so those are two things, two big things that this interaction
of being associated with this
Kannada Hari development or Nirmal Nagari, she called it Nirmal Nagari is what she called it then.
So she was involved. She was very much supportive. She had all support and gave us so
many suggestions about what we could do with the land. So the sky was the limit. And she even said
at one point we could have a golf, she wanted to have a golf course there. So the thing is
when yogis, you know, when the ideas came up, a lot of yogis deliberate over it, deliberate it.
We did, you know, can we do this? How can we do it? How much will it cost? Who, you know, this and
that kind of thing. She was so, she really pulled us through all that. And
she didn't have like limitations on what we could do with it. And I will show you and I get a chance
if we have enough time or I'll forward it later on. This, I have it open in a tab here somewhere.
Like all these things that we consolidated into a document
to, you know, about what the land use could be. And they include all things that, you know, even,
you know, she even told what kinds of fruit you could grow. And she even said we could grow cattle,
we could raise cattle and that sort of thing. So everything was there. I mean, what else?
When we, before we put up the hangar, Shri Mataji had a meeting with all the yogis,
handful of yogis. There were like maybe eight, six, eight of us. I don't know. And it was in
New York where she was staying. And she showed where to put the road, where the parking lot will
be. She showed where the hangar would be. She showed which side of the hangar the
stage would go, how it should be oriented left and right.
And, you know, things came up while we were there. And we're looking at the map of the land.
And, you know, she's asking about what's on this air. And it's just fields of grass. And
then someone said, the neighbors, they're cutting your grass, you know, something like that.
And she responded, oh, that's all right. They'll help you. The neighbors will help you. And that
was a mantra because there were so many troubles we got into, including getting stuck in the mud.
So many problems that we had that didn't last long, the problems. But like hurdles we had in
getting things done that talking to the neighbors got it resolved. It's, oh, yes, you just do this.
Okay, right. And so we had to get it done. And we had to get it done. And so we had to get it
done. And so, yes, you just do this. Okay, we're putting in the road and we had to put a culvert
in. No one has ever put a culvert in. And the guy's just driving by. So what you doing? Oh,
putting a cover. Okay, let me get on. He jumps on the tractor. And he says, you know, you dig out a
little bit here, and you level it like this. And that was it. And then he drove away. So this kind
of thing happened over and over again, whenever we had things that needed to be done, and we didn't
seem to have them. They seemed insurmountable. The neighbors, especially there were a couple of
neighbors there. But there was the one set of neighbors that were McGovern's. They were
very, very helpful. They were not real secret, but they were very good people. I mean, we tried
invited them once to the Shrimataji's house, which became an ashram later on,
and to give realization. But they were not interested. But they were very respectful to
Shrimataji. And we used to invite them to the entertainment program, and they used to enjoy it.
And, you know, they weren't seekers, but they were like good ganas, you know. They
were good for us, and they were obeying, you know, the neighbors will help you, that she said that
day. There was a property next to ours. I don't know if everybody knows, but there was this land
that Shrimataji got is one of three parcels that was owned by, you can find out later,
it's in the video, I think, it was owned by a drug dealer. They were distilling something in
the property next to ours, which is all part, which is actually was all part of one property.
So after that bust, and it was like the biggest bust in,
isn't it amazing? Yeah, so there's nothing like the vibrations are bad, so let's avoid that place.
No, no, nothing. I mean, the vibrations are pure, so these people were hanging out for a while
there. That's all, you know. So, but any case, it was a bust, one of the biggest busts in history.
And then the government took over the land, and then a realtor bought it and divided it into three
pieces. So there was a property adjacent to us, which was part of ours, and originally one neighbor
lived there, he used to help us, they told you they gave us to bring, let us use their water before we
had our own well. And that property had a nice pond that you could see, and we can see from our land,
a nice big pond. Our pond is nice and big too, but it was another nice pond and very close by. And
I think we were talking about ponds to Sri Mataji, and she said, came up that the neighbor has a nice
pond, and she said, why don't you go over there and see if he'll let us, you know, use the pond.
So later on that house got bought by another person, and he wasn't, he wasn't very nice,
and he wouldn't let us use the pond, and he wouldn't, yeah, he wasn't very friendly.
But she, you know, she was at some point also, she asked us to see if we can try to get that
house, and we tried to get it, but the price was never like what we thought was worth paying
for, so we'd never bought that property. We did buy another property which was part of the,
you know, original land. There was another 88 acres, and we don't, maybe nobody even,
very few people know about it, because it's not adjacent. It's, let me see, one second, I think
I can share my screen, right? Can I? And then I can show you, no it's disabled, never mind, okay.
But the three properties, there's ours, and then there's this neighbor's, and then there's one
other 88 acres, so the neighbor's is in between. So we bought that as well, BND owns that.
I think we never, like no one really can, I don't know of any plans, yeah, how we use it or anything
like that. So let me see.
Sorry, I don't think we can do the screen share. That's okay, it's okay.
Apologies for that. No problem at all, yeah, I won't try again.
Yeah, we'll see if we can forward the information afterwards. Yeah, that might be worth doing it.
Yeah, is it chat work? Can I like drop the link in the chat for people?
Thanks, Ritu, I think the chat works, does it not?
Yeah, I'll just drop. Yeah, the chat works.
Oh, okay, let me drop that in. This is,
If you share that, then I can probably, I can share to either, I can either send it to
Katie or you. Yeah, if you could send it to me. Okay. And then I can share that.
Okay. So that's, I mean, you can find that yourself also, but that's,
that's the map. And while I'm here, I'll just see what else I can share.
All right, when I get to it, there's something else I want to share as well.
Yeah, I can share that. Yeah. Okay.
I'm gonna give you another link as well.
Okay, we'll just stick on this for now. Yeah.
Yeah, so yeah, you can zoom in. And I think you see Starkville Road there
towards the right hand, top right hand corner, you see Starkville Road. And then you can see
our hangar. You see the hangar and it says Canada Harry School there. And then you can see
the hangar. And right next to it on the right side, you see Chris Road. That's where this
other property is. It's at the end of that road. And then on the right side of Chris Road,
right side of Chris Road is the, so yeah, it will be on the lower part of the screen on the right.
Yeah, you can see like some rectangles.
Yeah, so you can see that it's 76. Yeah. Or you see that road that's running right diagonally from
the bottom right hand corner to the top. That's Starkville Road. And then below that,
on the right hand side, the dark green area with the rectangles, that's the other property. That's
the 88 acres. There are two fields there or there were two fields. If you don't cut them regularly,
and I don't know if they're getting cut, whether they're still fields, you know, brush starts to
grow up. Yeah, so that's the whole property that the realtor had and sold to different people. And
then we've got two of three of them.
We've got two of three of them.
Thanks.
So I want to give you another link. Now, this is a document that some yogis
put together. At one point, Shri Mataji asked yogis...
She asked that she talked to the leader and asked for formation of a committee
to kind of organize the work in Kannada Hari. And there was a cab driver and
a construction person and a gardener. And the three of us put together this document
of which would be the uses for the land. And these were, you know, these were all
these things were discussed with Shri Mataji. I think Shri Mataji really encouraged us to dream.
And
Isn't it even with you share this document?
Yeah, it's fine. You know, this is history. You can share it, you can do what you like.
I mean, this is old. Yeah, this is like from the year 2000, something like that.
Anyway, if you go further down, I think it shows like what things we can grow.
So a lot of these things we've done, a lot of these things were basic things.
It was kind of a big thing for us at the time. Maybe there's another document that I have.
If I have more time to look on another time, I'll forward it to you.
So did most of this get done?
I would say a lot of this got done, you know, a lot of this got done.
Some things didn't get done, you know. And I don't want to focus on that, you know.
But it's a very long list.
Yeah, I don't want to I think a lot of this got done. I think the important things must
have gotten done. Shrimataji, while she was talking with us,
I think she made sure that the important things got done.
And you say to us about how many yogis were working on this?
Well, there were a lot of yogis who expressed interest in working on this.
There were just three of us who like were in this committee to begin with. And it's actually,
it seemed to work better that way when there were just, you know, there weren't many.
And, you know, you could, and if there was a good rapport, and it worked fairly well.
So that through this, you know, the work that we got done where, you know, the locations of
the buildings, the first kitchens, the parking lot,
the hangar actually was done before we had this committee.
Can we bring Joe in a moment? Because I know Joe was really involved with a lot of this as well.
Hi, everyone. Some of you know me very well. I started off in London.
And mother sent me back to America to do the work here. So I've been here since 1993.
And at some point in time, of course, when the land was purchased,
as 94. So very soon after that I was living further away in Philadelphia and point south.
But somehow managed to get the enthusiasm to travel up frequently to Kennejahari,
which was quite the amazing place. And as Michael can attest, it was,
we always felt rejuvenated and amazing after we got back and camping was very basic.
We didn't have a lot of facilities. By the time I joined some of the poojas, there was maybe 25
to 40 people maximum. And we cooked for ourselves and we swam in the ponds. And
because there's two ponds, although we only use the one now. And we cooked for ourselves and
cleaned up after ourselves and then miracle of miracles, they built the hangar. And shortly after
the hangar, there was the first little kitchen which Michael starts to tell you about. But
apparently it was not constructed in the right spot. So a second one was then developed and
built. At the same time, they also built the bathhouse and adjacent. And in between,
there was meant to be a children's playground because at some point in time, I was drawn into
all of this enthusiasm, even though remotely through Michael. And they would talk to Sharmataji
and then he would tell me things and then I would go back to my drawing table and draw things up,
which I am going to give to Adrian to scan and make available for everyone. We have a plethora
of ideas. So but those first ones were quite amazing. And there was a lot of rain and we
did have wellingtons everybody wore boots. And we lost shoes in the mud as well. I mean,
it was quite hilarious. I remember being in one small pen doll, maybe the size of I don't know.
I don't know Michael, how long was it? Maybe it wasn't even 40 feet long. It's maybe 35 feet long,
maybe 20 some feet wide rained all weekend. We cooked and we had havan and we had puja
all under this and we slept all under the same pen doll because it was raining. We couldn't go
out and do anything outside. But we all had a great time. And we all had we were so thankful
that we had them McGovern's as our neighbors because they would pull us out of the mud
regularly with the tractor. And it was quite the beginning for untold amount of adventures
yet to happen in Kenan Johari. But when I came on the scene, it was I had moved to Rochester,
New York from Philadelphia. And we were living about two hours away. And Michael said,
Shama Chaji has expressed interest in buying a house because they had put her
in rental units for the 1999 Adi Shakti puja and the 2000 Shakti puja 2000 Adi Shakti puja.
They had rented houses for her and looked after her that way. And she expressed interest. And
Michael described to me that we should find a house for her in the area. So as Michael can
tell you, we went to all the different well, two or three different realtors. And we looked at as
many properties as you can imagine, and scouted them out for Shama Chaji sending quick hand
drawings to Manoj to show to Shama Chaji and Kabela. And she kept saying no, no, no, not this
one, not this one and all the different areas around the land. Michael, how far away did we go?
Not more than five miles, right? Not more than might have been more than five miles. I mean,
we looked. But I mean, yeah, I mean, we, we didn't, I don't know if we really measured the miles.
We were just, you know, we didn't know the area very well, but we thought this was in the,
in a good direction from Kena Johari and around five, five miles, maybe more or less. Yeah.
And inevitably Shama Chaji always said no. And then Michael, what did she say? She said to you,
or she said to Manoj. Do you remember? Well, yeah, it, it just so happened. I don't
remember who came across it, but when someone came across an advertisement for a, for a double wide,
a manufactured home, it was like an unbelievable, it was a poster, you know, like an eight by 12
sheet of paper that was displayed someplace. And it had a list of all the amenities that the
house included. And it's a house that, you know, you could put down,
I don't know what it was like 40,000, 50,000 dollars. And you could,
you know, have it delivered and it looked just like a house.
Shama Chaji said, she said, what? She said, why? Why look for houses?
She said, she said, I'll take two of them.
The house to be built on the land. Yes. And that was, that turned out to be a bit of a Maya,
that two house thing, because we were going to put a house and we had to get a permit. So
talk to the townspeople about that. And they said, okay, you're like a religious organization. You
guys can, you know, normally it's one house, one piece of land, but you're a religious organization.
You can have a house, you can have two houses, you can have a congregation building, you can have all
kinds of things. All we want is you to tell us everything you're going to, you're planning to do,
write it up in a, like a master plan. You can change it later on if you want.
You give that to us. And then after that, you can apply for permits as you need them.
So that's what they did.
Oh, I got too busy. Yes.
Yes. That's right.
I got busy on the drafting table and I drove, I drew up three or four different proposals for
houses in different locations, but it was really interesting how we found the location for
Shamad Digi's house. We were walking around the land because the hangar was already there
and it needed to be fairly close to the road because of the access problem with the mud.
So we were cognizant of being careful to check the front part of the property closest to Starkville
road for locations to put the house. And we walked around like this, right, Michael?
We walked around the property in the front checking vibrations where this house should be.
That's right. Someone, a team of yogi said that this was the coolest spot and it was a place where
yogi had planted pine trees. His idea was that we'd have like Christmas trees to sell in the
future, to do some agriculture there. But it was really was the best spot for a house. It was also
somewhat hidden so that it's not right in the middle of the traffic and all the yogis going
back and forth from the hangar. So, I mean, when you and I and others looked at it, it was very
clear this was going to be the spot and that's where it ended up being. And then we had to worry
about the infrastructure. We had to have a driveway and a slab and a place for the well
and a place for the septic and electrical access and all those things. So all those things had to
be permitted and done and all within two months. Yeah. In a very short period of time, very short
period of time. And then she, she herself, she, she picked everything because isn't that correct?
She chose all the finishes and, and, you know, I know that, I know that Manoj told us and I,
I didn't have that conversation that she picked it, you know, and she might have, you know.
Some things he decided. He was just being very practical. But she was very pleased with
everything. Though it was a manufactured home that many people were skeptical about,
you know, in terms of what it quality, what kind of quality it would be,
she was very pleased with it. She, she really liked the home and especially it was built very
quickly. During the same time, her, the house she was building for Cersei P in New Jersey,
that was also going on. And there were times when there were two occasions when she was coming to
visit and she stayed in Canada, Harry, because the because, you know, it's different building a house
from scratch. The house in New Jersey wasn't built yet. So, but she stayed in CJ's. We were able to
host her there. I wanted to mention a little Maya that is related to this house and the two houses
that she requested. I don't know if I mentioned it to you before, but, you know, she asked for
two houses and then this town's person said we can do what we want to do, you know, but I think
I do know where it came from. It didn't come from Srimadaji. I'm sure it was from some yogis,
I suppose, said that we, you know, let's just do one house now and we'll do the other house later.
And so that's what we did. And so later on, after we built the house, she did want the other house.
She talked about it again. She met with the salesman who, who get, who sold us that house.
And he said he could make it any way we wanted. And, you know, he could have it to us quickly.
And so she asked us to tell the town we were going to do another house. And so that's what we did.
We did this special permit. We told him there was going to be another house. We told him,
maybe you did some of the drawing where the second house would be. Yes, you did.
There are two. It's a proposal B and proposal C. Yeah.
Yeah. So we had picked out a location for the second house. I think one house was going to be
for the yogis and one was going to be for her and her family. That was the idea in the beginning.
And so that didn't happen right away, the second house for some reason or another.
And later on some yogis came to, Shri Mataji was very interested in, in building,
you know, the second house, but she always talked about residences. And, you know, there was the,
the cabins that she talked about first of all. And then these, she thought it was a good idea
to have these manufactured homes. And then with different yogis, she had this, this conversations
about straw bale homes. I mean, not the same yogi, but like there were different yogis that
she had conversations with some in Europe, some in America about. And then at that time,
I think at that time in America, or maybe in the world, straw bale homes were a thing, you know,
it was something that was, people were doing a lot of it was. And so anyway, she said, we should
do that. And there were some yogis in Europe that were interested in that. And they came to the U S
and their, their job was to help us get to the straw bale and make the straw bale home.
And then eventually they designed something that was going, I'm going to share the concept
drawing of it. It was designed to be like a school. And we've been, we've, I have plans for it,
engineered plans for it. And yeah, we had learned everything that needed to be done
about making this and we were ready and we even applied for the building permit to put it in place.
But you know, you know, as things, as time progressed, Srimadaji talked less to
the leader and then the leadership changed into a council. So it was less access. There wasn't this
daily talk back and forth. We were more on our own, you know, like we were growing up, maybe,
you know, we were not the babies anymore. We were maybe, that's the way I think about it. Like the
early period was the baby chick period or magic period where there was a lot of back and forth
between Srimadaji and what we were going to do and corrections and directions about how, how to do
things. And then later on there were, there was more, you know, she talked less, I mean, to
everyone. It was that period of time where she talked less about how to do things. And then
there was a period of time where she was speaking less and that's when the councils were formed.
And somehow, you know, the original plan didn't get communicated, that we were going to have two
houses and there were going to be two manufactured houses that didn't get communicated. So we had a
permit. They called this, they have to have two permits. One is a special permit. One special
permit said that you're going to have manufactured homes and then you're applying for a building
that wasn't a manufactured home. And that continuity was lost. So there's just more
people were involved and different people were talking to the town at that point. And so they
didn't approve of the permit. You know, we would have had to revise our original permit. But I want
to show you, it's a pretty building. I'm not going to share the plans, but I'm going to share
the concept drawing. It's a big building. It's a two-story and it's as much
square footage of the hangar. And I shared that to read too, just now.
If we could look at that, if it's appropriate, we can look at that.
After that, we're going to run out of time. I just want to share one last story with you.
See if it comes up.
Do you want to go, Joan, if it comes up, we'll work around that.
Okay, that's fine.
If the right time is ticking.
We had the two pujas with Srimataji, 1999 Adishakti. And then the following year,
the rains of 2000 Adishakti puja. And that was the year Srimataji had asked us to also host
weddings. And that was really a huge undertaking on many levels. Not just in preparing the land
for Srimataji and her house and everything. Also modifications had to be made to the house. It had
to be made enlarged because we needed an extra new room for source DP. And a few other changes were
made in the house. Those were all done in the ensuing year. So that when she would come back
in 2000, they were more comfortable. But we had gigantic pendants for everybody to sleep in,
the ladies and the men. We didn't have any pole barn yet. And we still had the same
bath house and the same, the second kitchen. And we had to manage to cook, not just for the yogis,
but also for the weddings. And we had to somehow get all the brides ready and all the grooms ready
and down to the hanger without getting covered with mud. So there was this battalion of people
with wellies and umbrellas to escort each and every bride or groom down to the hanger in a
procession of sorts so that they couldn't A, see each other and B, that they would stay dry
and clean until they could get down to the marriage ceremony. So it was a huge undertaking.
It was a lot of fun. It was a crazy time because it rained pretty much nonstop and the mud was very
deep. And holding up these ladies' saris so we could get them down the hill was actually
quite an undertaking, holding umbrellas over them because they were all beautiful, you know,
with the decoration and the makeup and the jewelry and the beautiful heavy saris. So
it was a quite an undertaking. And there are photographs from the weddings that have been
posted by Adrienne on Eternal Moments, which are available for everyone. And you can enjoy the fact
and you can enjoy the fact that how this got done, we don't know how we fed 1000 people,
we don't know how we made the beautiful repast for the marriages. It just all got done. And I was on
the kitchen team that year. So I was part of not just helping the brides, but actually actually
cooking for the whole crowd. So it was a beautiful time. Quite amazing. The vibrations were incredible.
And to see all of this unfold out of this very humble place, this beautiful land,
to come together to have such an event was just spectacular. Spectacular. There's no other words.
And everybody, you know, from the smallest child to the elder, the eldest adult, had the best time
of their lives just to be there on the land just to be with Sharmataji, just to witness how
how far we had come already, from the very humble beginning of this teeny tiny little
advertisement in the New York Times. So I think that wraps it up for me. Michael, do you have that
document? Yeah, I forwarded that. I sent that to you too. Yeah, that is just,
yeah, would you like to say that? Yeah, that's the drawing Sharmataji made. Yeah,
yeah, this one for a dwelling. I can share that. That's fine. And if any of you want to come to
Kanet Johari, please do. I know some of you have already been there. But whoever of you have
haven't yet had the opportunity, it is an experience you will never forget. It's completely
vibrated and wonderful. And a lot of a lot of joy there. Please come. Okay, that I'm sorry, that's
the that's the straw bale that was not built, but was designed. That was the concept drawing.
So the walls are like of a kind of concrete, not quite concrete, it's using clay and lime.
And then inside the walls are the straw, something Sharmataji showed a lot of interest in and asked
some people come to come to us to do. And I think it's been forgotten. And like I said, I have the
the stamped engineer drawing for that. I think we may have to wrap it up there. Thank you so so
much, Michael and Joe. Just makes me want to go to Kaljahari now. Please. Wait, wait till the
weather's nice. And then you can go swimming in the barn. There does seem to be a lot of mud in
the history of this. But we're out of the mud. We're out of the mud. Now we have that. Yeah,
we didn't get we didn't get to talk. We actually built the road and pathways and there's a hanger
and there's a Yeah, I mean, you need it. You'll need a good tent. You know, there's the pole barn.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, if it's very full, there are a lot of people there, you probably want to have
your own tent and a good one that doesn't leak. Yeah. Oh, my God. It's just extraordinary,
extraordinary what has been created over there. A real paradise, real paradise. And what vision.
I love the creativity that has gone into it all from the beginning. Wonderful tales, wonderful
stories. I'm sure there's lots more. There's lots more. Yes. We have a lot of stories.
There's lots more time this evening. Yeah, I know. But thank you for having us. We are honored that
we get to share some of this very fun stories. That's great. That's great. Maybe more for next
time, which I'll see what happens in January. But thank you very, very much both for sharing
and taking time out of your day because it's your day over there now.
We've had a wonderful evening. Thank you, everyone.
We shall leave it there for this evening. But thank you very, very much.
Thank you, everyone, for joining us this evening as well. Thanks for inviting us.
It's a real pleasure. It's a real pleasure. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Saving these links and see if I can. Thank you. If you can. Michael, just a request if you can
probably share it in early Yogi's group. Okay, I don't. I might have that. I think
you sent that to me, Joe, the early Yogi's link. If you didn't, I'll check. I can try to save. But
just to be sure. Sure, sure, sure. We'll get it to you somehow. Yeah. Thank you so much. Thank you.
No problem. Bye bye. Bye, everyone. Thank you so much.
And love from this side of the world. The Atlantic over to yours. Thank you.